
Will be finishing TCP (flow control), then going to link layer (ethernet) and next week we will do WiFi.

Communication schemes... include stop and wait and sliding window.
We discussed it last lecture.
The pipelining idea involves not waiting for one acknowledgement and simply sending more data to the channel as we wait, and then resend it if we do not receive it.
The window size is the number of packets we can send without the confirmation.
// Can the window be a period of time instead of an amount?
Oh, actually, that would be Go-Back-N.

...Selective repeat with fast re-transmit and low error rates.
One acknowledgement can acknowledge an entire sequence of packets.

Congestion window when the sender voluntarily decreases the size of the window.

Tahoe variant TCP flow control. Reno not so important.

Sometimes students say in the exam that UDP is faster because there are no limitations and there's no need to send confirmations, etc. Though, it is silly to say it is faster. To be faster, is to send data at a faster rate, which means technically we can saturate the link with more useful data. Though, during the transmission, every time we want to submit the data, we want to be sure this data is delivered, and we don't have that with UDP. It is used for different times of transmissions, for example, live streaming.

May ask about QUIC, a protocol developed by Google in recent years, and it handles the connections and flow control. It is implemented on application layer,m and the data is sent over UDP. 


# Data Link Layer - Ethernet Technologies

We know there is some switching technology, some ARP protocol, some Ethernet header having two MAC addresses. We will look more into it. 
It does not only define the software, but also the hardware.
It defines the first tow layers of the ISO/OSI model.

In the past, one pair was used in the communication for one direction and the other in the other.
Something something multiplex, allowing multiple devices to use the same communication medium. Every user has a time slot where he is allowed to communicate and he should remain silent the rest of the time.
Ethernet's MUX and DEMUX. Check slides.
Also spacial multiplexing with antennas..?

When collision happens, we use random intervals to avoid cyclic collisions.

...Carrier Sense CSMA method... leave it for WiFi.

# NAT (Network Address Translation)

We saw how to connect our network to the internet from the perspective of the routing.
There aren't enough IPv4 addresses for all devices.
The clever solution, created temporary but stuck around.
There are different ranges for our LAN segments.
The private network ranges can be used only using the local network and cannot be routed to the internet. Ethernet holds the public IP address, and then private IP address differentiates it.

Again, the home routers use the range `192.168.0.0/16`
Now, the IP address which is most used / popular is `192.168.0.1` or `192.168.1.1`

Port Address Translation, Masquerade. Network Address Translation is any method that changes the IP addresses in the header. LAN to WAN. Dynamic map, overload, are special types of NAT for situations where we have multiple devices inside the local network, and we want for all of them to access the other size of the network from one specific IP. This is called the Dynamic Map, PAT, Masquerade, etc.

Source port for every TCP connection is generated by random.
Destination port depends on the application layer protocol. i.e. 80 for HTTP, 443 for HTTPS.

`cat /etc/services` to find the ports for the services.

`netstat` gives the statistics about current networking on the device. `-t` flag denotes TCP protocol.

Having multiple independent devices, it is possible for a collision when they create the same random value. The router has to handle it.

Port forwarding mentioned..

Extra translation table for ICMP protocol since it doesn't have port.
